# Volume-1 ADX for COVID

## Overview
The ADX for COVID profile is a content profile based on the Aggregate Data Exchange (ADX) specification. It defines a message schema for disaggregated data element reports that may be generated by point of service digital health solutions that operationalize the WHO COVID-19 case reporting form. The case reporting form tracks longitudinal person-centric data about COVID-19 cases and represents the underlying content data model for this ADX schema.

## Concepts

<diagram>

Figure 1: ADX actors and their roles

The actors defined in the ADX specification, and their respective roles, are described in Figure 1. The ADX for COVID content specification represents an ADX-conformant Message Schema (highlighted in yellow in the figure). It is a computable representation of the weekly reportable indicators defined by the WHO for COVID case reporting.[ https://www.who.int/emergencies/diseases/novel-coronavirus-2019/technical-guidance/surveillance-and-case-definitions] This data reporting specification relies on the underlying case report specification, which has also been defined by WHO. For this content profile, WHO is the organization defining the reportable indicators and the QRPH committee is leveraging tooling (acting as a Content Data Structure Creator) to generate the ADX schema. [ In support of this work item, IHE has reached out to SNOMED International for assistance in mapping concepts defined in the WHO case report form. This content specification leverages the SNOMED codes recommended by them.]

A point of service digital health application (playing the role of a Content Creator actor) would leverage this schema to generate conformant COVID-19 aggregate data report messages that are then submitted to a health information management system (HMIS), which plays the role of a Content Consumer actor.

## Use Cases
A country’s Ministry of Health (MOH) has implemented an electronic case reporting (eCR) form based on the normative WHO COVID-19 case reporting form. On a periodic basis (i.e. weekly), aggregate data reporting messages are generated by the eCR application and submitted to the MOH’s health management information system (HMIS). The MOH is able to leverage the HMIS to inform its actions to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. 

## Security Considerations
Aggregate data reports based on this ADX content specification do not contain identifiable person-centric information. Even so, the aggregate data reports are securely submitted using the QRPH-53 transaction (based on HTTPS). No other security considerations are identified.

## Cross-Profile Considerations
Not applicable. 
